Adds new blog post regarding customizing the E2E test image (#944)
vmware-tanzu/sonobuoy: site/_posts/2019-10-09-Custom-E2E-Image.md

---
title: Simple Approaches to Customizing the Kubernetes E2E Tests
excerpt: Two approaches to running the E2E tests with custom options to support your workflow.
author_name: John Schnake
author_url: https://github.com/johnschnake
# author_avatar: https://placehold.it/64x64
categories: [kubernetes, sonobuoy, conformance]
# Tag should match author to drive author pages
tags: ['Sonobuoy Team']
---

# Simple Approaches to Customizing the Kubernetes E2E Tests

Sonobuoy can be used to run any set of custom tests and data-gathering logic, but the most common use case continues to be running the Kubernetes E2E tests.

The [E2E test image](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/tree/master/cluster/images/conformance) is maintained by the Kubernetes community and is automatically generated for each release of Kubernetes. The test image bundles:
The binary, which contains the test logic
Ginkgo, a tool for running tests

> An entrypoint script, which starts the tests and reports the results to Sonobuoy

Reviewer: This renders strangely, don't seem to be picked up as a list. Can you double-check?

If you need to set those values, there are two approaches worth discussing:

- Using the new, Golang-based entrypoint for the test image, which supports passing arbitrary flags to the tests
- Building a custom test image

# Using the Golang-based Entrypoint

This new feature was added in Kubernetes 1.16.0 and was designed to make the conformance image more robust. It is not the default entrypoint, so if you want to use it, you need to set `E2E_USE_GO_RUNNER=true` when running the image. For Sonobuoy 0.16.1, this setting is the default mode.

> It’s most significant feature is the new environment variables, which can be used to set arbitrary flags when  the tests are invoked. For example, to set the GCE regions mentioned above, you run Sonobuoy with the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Its most significant feature is the new environment variables, which can be used to set arbitrary flags when the tests are invoked. For example, to set the GCE regions mentioned above, you run Sonobuoy with the following command:
```

```
$ sonobuoy run --plugin-env=e2e.E2E_USE_GO_RUNNER=true \

> --plugin-env=e2e.E2E_PROVIDER=gce \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    --plugin-env=e2e.E2E_PROVIDER=gce \
```

> --plugin-env=e2e.E2E_EXTRA_ARGS=”--gce-zone=foo --gce-region=bar”

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    --plugin-env=e2e.E2E_EXTRA_ARGS=”--gce-zone=foo --gce-region=bar”
```

Reviewer 2: Just a cosmetic change.

# Building Your Own Test Image

I’ve often referred people to the Kubernetes repo (and its [instructions](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/tree/master/cluster/images/conformance#how-to-release-by-hand)) when they need help building a custom test image.  That approach would surely work, but it involves actually building the Kubernetes tests yourself, which may tax your local machine or be difficult to set up the first time.

For most users, I’d recommend taking a much simpler approach: Just built a new image based on the existing one and swap out the script as needed.

By building the existing test image, the Kubernetes build process has already done the hard work: Built the tests, downloaded ginkgo, loaded everything into the right places, and included the script to execute the tests. All you have to do is tweak a single script.

So, for instance, if you want to support the provider-specific values, all you have to do is:

> Create your custom script (usually just a slight modification of the existing one)

Reviewer 2: Again, these aren't on separate lines in the rendered page.

Create a new image and make it available (a two-line Dockerfile)
Create a custom plug-in definition that will use your image instead of the upstream Kubernetes conformance image (a single command)
Run Sonobuoy with the custom plug-in

Almost all of this can be entirely scripted:

```
# Be sure to push images to the correct registry and use the right version of tests.
$ export REGISTRY=schnake
$ export k8sVersion=$(kubectl version -o json|jq .serverVersion.gitVersion -r) 

# Download the existing run script as a starting place and change its mode to be executable.

> $ curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/master/cluster/images/conformance/run_e2e.sh -o run.sh && chmod +x run.sh

Reviewer 2: Should the downloaded script come from the matching Kubernetes version instead?

Author: The script doesn't change much since it moved upstream; typically just bug fixes and such. I don't think it is a big deal to take the one from master.

Reviewer 2: That's what I guessed but just wanted to check :)

---
title: Simple Approaches to Customizing the Kubernetes E2E Tests

> image: /img/vmware-tanzu.svg

Reviewer 2: Is this the image that we are using for all our blog posts from now on?

Author: Great question; I just copy-pasted the intro part. @jonasrosland do you mind if we go back to just using the Sonobuoy one? That would be my preference.

Author: Moved it back to sonobuoy logo unless told otherwise.

Reviewer: No need to use the VMware Tanzu logo except when it's being called out, so yeah, change to the Sonobuoy one, or a more descriptive screenshot, or something else :)

excerpt: Two approaches to running the E2E tests with custom options to support your workflow.
author_name: John Schnake
author_url: https://github.com/johnschnake
# author_avatar: https://placehold.it/64x64
categories: [kubernetes, sonobuoy, conformance]
# Tag should match author to drive author pages
tags: ['Sonobuoy Team']
---

# Simple Approaches to Customizing the Kubernetes E2E Tests

Sonobuoy can be used to run any set of custom tests and data-gathering logic, but the most common use case continues to be running the Kubernetes E2E tests.

The [E2E test image](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/tree/master/cluster/images/conformance) is maintained by the Kubernetes community and is automatically generated for each release of Kubernetes. The test image bundles:

> The binary, which contains the test logic

Reviewer 2: These aren't appearing on separate lines on the rendered page. Perhaps they should be bullet points?
